CHART: 17 Years After Oklahoma City Bombing, Right-Wing Extremism Is Significant Domestic Terror Threat
By Guest Blogger
By Ken Sofer and CAP National Security team intern Molly Bernstein
Seventeen years ago today, Timothy McVeigh and co-conspirator Terry Nichols detonated 4,800 pounds of homemade explosives under the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building’s daycare center in downtown Oklahoma City. The explosion resulted in 168 dead, 680 injured and over $652 million in damage. The Oklahoma City bombing was the deadliest terrorist attacks in U.S. history until 9/11.
McVeigh said that he attacked the Murrah building, which held the local offices of the DEA, ATF, Social Security, and the Army and Marine recruiting offices, because of his hatred of the federal government, opposition to gun control laws and anger at the FBI for its actions during the Waco Siege of 1993. McVeigh was found guilty on eleven counts of murder and conspiracy in 1997 and was executed by lethal injection on June 11, 2001.
Though the terrorist attack on Oklahoma City happened nearly two decades ago, right-wing extremist terrorism remains a significant domestic threat to American security. The Department of Homeland Security released a report in 2009 stating that the economic and political climate bears important similarities to the conditions of the early 1990s when right-wing extremism experienced a dramatic resurgence. These conditions, including the public debate around hot-button issues such as immigration, gun control, and abortion, along with the election of the first African-American president, present “unique drivers for right-wing radicalization and recruitment,” the report said.
&lt;...&gt;
A look at terrorist incidents since the Oklahoma City bombing, including both successful and disrupted ideologically-motivated attacks, backs up the conclusions of the DHS report:
Fifty-six percent of domestic terrorist attacks and plots in the U.S. since 1995 have been perpetrated by right-wing extremists, as compared to 30 percent by ecoterrorists and 12 percent by Islamic extremists. Right-wing extremism has been responsible for the greatest number of terrorist incidents in the U.S. in 13 of the 17 years since the Oklahoma City bombing.
- more -
1. BUT of course White people who are christian can NEVER be called Terrorists by mainstream media.
2. It's called TeaTerror. <a href="http://tinyurl.com/TeaTerror">http://tinyurl.com/TeaTerror</a>
3. Unmonitored bag of nutcases
4. K&amp;R
5. And anarchists still get a bad rap. Couple of bad apples and the whole philosophy is slandered.
Interestingly the entire "ecoterrorism" / "green scare" thing was purely a PSYOPS. Almost the entire Green Scare was made by interjecting very manipulative moles (particularly a pretty woman who pretended to have affection for one of the men) and getting people to do stuff they otherwise wouldn't have.
Right wing extremism doesn't even have to be fomented. It exists. Right wing, by its nature, is violent and terroristic.
