Ailing Lockerbie bomber drops appeal, as fate in balance
Edinburgh, Aug 18, 2009 (AFP)
Dying Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Ali Mohmet al-Megrahi dropped his appeal
against conviction Tuesday, leaving his fate in the hands of a Scots minister
under fierce US pressure not to free him.
Scottish Justice Secretary Kenny MacAskill is mulling several options for
Megrahi, jailed for killing 270 people in 1988: moving him to a Libyan jail,
freeing him on compassionate grounds or keeping him in a Scottish prison.
The White House said late Tuesday Megrahi -- the only person convicted over the
blowing up of Pan Am Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie -- should
remain in jail.
"It's the policy of this administration as enunciated ... by Secretary of State
(Hillary) Clinton, that this individual should serve out his term where he's
serving it right now," said White House spokesman Robert Gibbs.
One big obstacle preventing his return to Libya was removed Tuesday when
Edinburgh's High Court ruled that he could drop his appeal against conviction.
Lawyers for the former Libyan agent -- who has terminal prostate cancer -- told
the court that he was "very weak," adding: "He is suffering from severe pain and
he is in distress.
"His absolute priority is to die surrounded by his family," said lawyer Maggie
Scott.
But Megrahi can only be sent home under a prisoner transfer agreement when there
are no legal matters involving him outstanding -- and there is still an appeal
by the authorities against the leniency of his sentence to be resolved.
This issue is in principle expected to be decided at another court hearing
scheduled for September 8.
"One logjam in the road has been removed through today's decision," Robert
Black, professor of law at Edinburgh University and an architect of Megrahi's
original trial in the Netherlands, said outside the court.
"Another logjam remains, namely the Crown's appeal against the sentence that at
the moment is an absolute bar to his repatriation under the prisoner transfer
agreement."
Black noted that this appeal was no bar to Megrahi, 57, being granted
compassionate release by MacAskill, who has said he will announce a decision by
the end of the month.
Media reports suggest Megrahi could be freed on compassionate grounds this week.
As Tuesday's hearing took place, Scottish ministers met separately and discussed
whether to grant freedom on compassionate grounds to Megrahi, who was sentenced
in 2001 to 27 years in prison.
Afterwards a government spokeswoman said that MacAskill "briefly updated
colleagues on the situation simply to confirm that he received the full material
from officials on Friday and that he received and listened to representations
from those who have relevant interest.
"He will make his decision by the end of the month," she added.
Scotland's first minister Alex Salmond insisted that "international power
politics" would not influence the decision on Megrahi's fate, which would be
taken "on the evidence, in the interest of justice".
Secretary of State Clinton called MacAskill at the weekend to press Washington's
view that the Libyan should stay behind bars in Scotland.
The US pressure was underlined by a letter from seven US senators demanding he
complete his sentence.
Megrahi's lawyer said in court that she believed dropping the appeal would help
speed up the decision about his release.
However, campaigners hoping that his appeal would unearth fresh insights into
the bombing, including who instigated the crime, were disappointed.
"Who did it is still in the air -- we thought that might have been answered at
an appeal," said John Mosey, whose daughter Helga, 19, died in the bombing.
