SYTTD: Bride &amp; groom meet for first time AT their wedding!
I had an episode of Say Yes To The Dress: Atlanta on my DVR where the bride and groom met for the first time AT THEIR WEDDING. They met online and skyped 8 hours a day for 5 months and then decided to get married. She went dress shopping 8 days before the wedding and ended up with a bright red poofy dress.
What if he smelled? What if she HATED the way he did things that she never saw on Skype like loud chewing, snoring, farting....??? There are SO many things that could go wrong.
CRAZY.
I would be curious to see if they last. It'd be sweet if they stayed together but I am sure nobody would be surprised if they split. That's interesting, but I can't really knock it- because I'd never try it, haha.
There are so many things wrong with this scenario. CREEPY.
I mean, kudos to the people out there who make it work, but the thought terrifies me. My parents went through a phase of seriously researching arranged marriages and it was reason kabillionty twelve I was OUT of there as soon as humanly possible. Just...no.
oh hell no. I would need to see what he was packing first.
I mean, um, yeah that's crazy!
Do they both live in the US? Are they ultra religious? Why did they never meet before? I need to know more.
Do they both live in the US? Are they ultra religious? Why did they never meet before? I need to know more.
He lives in Ohio and she lives somewhere near Atlanta where the show is filmed. They did not talk about religion at all so I'm not sure that it was a factor. She is 35. They didn't say how old he is.
oh hell no. I would need to see what he was packing first.
I mean, um, yeah that's crazy!
Maybe she saw that on Skype? Weirder things have happened. :-)
Here is a video about them:
Oh, she is 36 from Florida.
I watched that! And the first thing I thought was, "What if he stinks or has bad breath?" lol
I can't imagine having my first kiss EVER with my husband be broadcast to the entire country.
I am SO MAD I had DH delete a bunch of episodes from the DVR, because I'm guessing this episode was on there.
It happens all the time in other cultures. I guess it depends on your expectations of a relationship.
It happens all the time in other cultures. I guess it depends on your expectations of a relationship.
I agree. It might work well because they are going into it with different expectations that most of us have.
I don't get why they wouldn't have bought a plane ticket and visited each other, It's not that far!
