Cindy Sheehan Challenging Feinstein For Senate Seat
I just heard that Cindy Sheehan has her eye on Dianne Feinstein's Senate seat. And a lot of people are considering voting for her.
Do you think she has a chance in hell? I like Cindy Sheehan and agree with her causes, but I think she's delusional if she thinks she can win against Feinstein.
I would vote for her though if I lived in California.
I was a big supporter but I think her grief is preventing her from thinking rationally. She has no chance against Feinstein. If she ran for Congress somewhere, she might have a chance, but not in a statewide Senate race and not against a longtime incumbent like Feinstein.
What a freak show that will be.
I sympathize with Cindy's plight for her dead son, but for god's sake woman just go away. You've had more than your fifteen minutes now......................
What a freak show that will be.
They say it takes one to know one.
The article says that she is doing it to protest Feinstein's support for the war in Iraq. So I kind of wonder how far she will take it. I don't see Sheehan really spending a lot of money to campaign against Feinstein if it's just a protest stunt.
On the other hand, Sheehan being a well known name her self, and this being California. I bet she could muster up 20% of the votes without any real effort.
I'm a californian and know a couple of people in relatively high state elective offices there, people who have worked their butts off for many years now - and I'm not so keen on celeb candidates, especially when they win. While I have been against our invasion of Iraq from the getgo, I cringe at opportunism as a key boost to elective office.
Edit to say I know opportunism is part of it all anyway, but with the people I know, not so much a part.
Sheehan is not a celebrity, she is an activist. It is a logical step to run for office. But pay your dues first. City Council, State congresswoman or something. Threatening Feinstein with the threat to run is just silly.
I don't see Sheehan as a celebrity, just a big name activist. On the other hand, given that Feinstein is pretty much guaranteed to win, a political battle with Sheehan could damage Feinsteins image if she is forced to defend her support for the war.
And, what's the possibility of a 3rd candidate taking advantage of the situation and ending up getting more votes than Feinstine and Sheehan. I think Feinstine has some real troubles ahead. Why doesn't Sheehan find a Republican to target?
Yeah, that's one of the main things I don't like about it. Is it really the most useful thing she could be doing for her cause, or is it the one that gets her, personally, the most attention?
Sure she is a activist, and I'll give her credit for activity when many doze, but I still see her as a heat seeking celebrity - thus the choice of going for a senate seat instead of what I presume are myriad other possibilities for instigating change.
