When you got to go, you got to go.
ORLANDO, Fla. - An astronaut drove from Houston to Florida, donned a disguise and confronted a woman she believed was romantically involved with a space shuttle pilot she was in love with, police said. She was charged with attempted kidnapping and other counts.
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. Navy Capt. Lisa Nowak, 43, who flew last July on a shuttle mission to the international space station, was also charged with attempted vehicle burglary with battery, destruction of evidence and battery. She was denied bail.
Nowak believed Shipman was romantically involved with Navy Cmdr. William Oefelein, a pilot during space shuttle Discovery's trip to the space station last December, police said.
Nowak told police that her relationship with Oefelein was "more than a working relationship but less than a romantic relationship," according to an arrest affidavit. Police officers recovered a love letter to Oefelein in her car.
This story serves to illustrate why I think all astronauts ought to be deported.
It's "piddle pack", not diaper.
Gee, stuff gets intense on occasion. And sometimes one is all by oneself on it.
Let me tell you about my dream...
Only half kidding, as this very morning I woke up annoyed at my own point of view on something. I was still annoyed and remembered whatever it was about ten minutes later... rather unusual. But then it effervesced.
OK, this woman might not be so well. Sometimes I'm sorry for the giant spotlight on everything.
This is a topic that Star Trek has never covered.
OMG. The nappy plan is far more bizarre than the kidnapping.
But, seriously people. When you are 43, you have to go the extra mile to hang on to your man.
She'll be in trouble at 53...
Ack, I think this is one befuddled woman
Years ago I was in Las Vegas on business and spoke with a local at poolside. She told me that there are many nutty gamblers who have found their favourite one-armed-bandit.
They get to it early in the morning and stay in front of it all day, wearing diapers because they don't want to lose 'THAT' machine.
