Til Debt do us Part
The couple on there today had 2 bankruptcies and were headed for a third. can you have 3 bankruptcies? There should be at least classes you have to take as punishment on how to save and not overspend.
And then there was a couple that had $80K in consumer debt. I was dumbfounded how that was even possible. 16 credit cards! Sometimes you wonder why the cc keep approving these people. Of course they are going to stop paying and probably end up declaring bankruptcy. I mean one of those cc companies approved them when they already had $50K in cc debt on their $80K salary.
I am trying to post MMR posts. This has no point. I am halfway there.
it also made me realize the obvious. a lot of marital issues stem from $$
People who have recently declared bankruptcy can still get credit, but they pay through the nose for it. There will probably be a fee to open the card, a fee on the first purchase, no grace period, and a high interest rate. Yes, a lot of these people never manage to pay back what they borrow, but those who do pay enough in interest and fees to make up for it. Lending to these people can be quite predatory, as you might expect. A well-meaning person or organization would encourage them to stick to cash or learn to be smarter with debt, rather than offering them more rope to hang themselves at an exorbitant price.
Also, while I don't know of any limit on the number of times you can declare bankruptcy, you can't declare bankruptcy again for some number of years after you last declared bankruptcy, so someone who just declared bankruptcy can be a better choice than someone who declared bankruptcy several years ago. If you can collect 50% interest on them for 2 years, it's not really a problem if they never actually pay back the principle.
You do have to complete some type of debt management class in order to file bankruptcy now, although I highly doubt that it is rigorous or effective.
I used to work as a consumer credit counselor, and you would be amazed. $80k in credit cards was not uncommon- I saw people who had up to $200k in unsecured debt. Unbelievably, some of these people actually had decent credit still (in terms of their score) because they made their payments on time, and had very high limits on the cards and didn't completely max them out.
Some people understood what they had done, but it was extremely frustrating talking to the people who really didn't get it. I was helping them get out of debt, but I knew they would just do it again after this round was paid off. Some people do not learn.
Have you noticed that they've made Gail over? Curls, plunging necklines and all? Lol I do support the MM chatter, but this is definitely worth a mention.
Have you noticed that they've made Gail over? Curls, plunging necklines and all? Lol I do support the MM chatter, but this is definitely worth a mention.
I dont know if I have ever told you that I love you before. But today, I must.
Have you noticed that they've made Gail over? Curls, plunging necklines and all? Lol I do support the MM chatter, but this is definitely worth a mention.
I dont know if I have ever told you that I love you before. But today, I must.
Lol hey, I knew I couldn't be the only one to notice the new do and new cleavage.
I love this show, and I'm doing the cash system because of Gail...she just spoke to me with those jars of hers! Anyway, we've been very successful with it so far. This week I've begun seeing the benefits of the system-there's money in the bank AND I have extra money in the envelopes. DH is on board with it and he just informed me that his OCD really loves using the cash system, even though he was very resistant to trying it at first. It's really exciting to see the changes it's brought to our spending habits. And I think Gail needed the makeover.
Some neighbors of mine growing up did this. I know of two instances for certain that they filed bankruptcy and possibly three. Each time they would get close, they would open as many cc as possible and max them out. I guess because they don't have to pay it back or something...I dunno I've never done it, but to this day they own nicer vehicles, farming equipment, clothing, etc then my family EVER has, and I'm just puzzled... apparently they know just all the loopholes or something.
Everyone in our small community talks about them and pretty much no one will do business with/for them anymore. They've ruined pretty much all of the relationships that they've had within the community. You would think that eventually they would be screwed because no one would trust them, but so far that hasn't happened.
My sister in law files bankruptcy every 7 years almost on the nose. It's just how she lives. She comes out ahead every time with cars, motorcycles, furniture, whatever. She's figured out the 'system'
She makes me ill.
