An illegal immigrant drug dealer who fled to his native Mexico after orchestrating the murder of an Iowa teenager is free because his conviction was overturned by an appellate court that ruled he was denied a speedy trial while he was a fugitive from U.S. justice.
The astounding case dates back more than a decade, when the illegal alien (Juan Humberto Castillo-Alvarez) drug lord ordered the execution-style murder of a 15-year-old northwest Iowa boy over a drug debt. The teen, rumored to be a police informant, was kidnapped and severely beaten before getting shot.
Castillo-Alvarez evaded U.S. authorities for a decade, hiding out in his Mexican hometown until spring of 2008 when he was finally extradited, tried and convicted of kidnapping, conspiracy and second-degree murder. He was subsequently sentenced to five decades in prison for the atrocious crime, which was not his first.
Incredibly, the Iowa Court of Appeals overturned the conviction last September, ruling that the illegal immigrant murderer was not granted a speedy trial guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
Gee - can't Polanski claim the same thing.? He fled too. Guests cannot see images in the messages. Please register to forum by clicking <a href="http://www.usmessageboard.com/register.php">here</a> to see images. Oh wait - he's not Mexican. My bad.
I don't believe the article. When a court determines whether someone's speedy trial rights were violated, they don't count days chargeable to the defendant... only days chargeable to the prosecution.
I don't believe the article. When a court determines whether someone's speedy trial rights were violated, they don't count days chargeable to the defendant... only days chargeable to the prosecution.
That sound like our gov. they take care of illegals alot better than their own.
Those who don't believe the article are living with their head in the sand. Look around you. Unless of course you live in MARS!
Incredibly, the Iowa Court of Appeals overturned the conviction last September, ruling that the illegal immigrant murderer was not granted a speedy trial guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
In regards to human rights here I will conservatively interpret the constitution and say fire the DA before more folks get let free.
Can't just hold folks for decades you know.
