AFTER THREE DECADES, TEXAS EXECUTES 500TH PERSON
HUNTSVILLE, Texas - As scores of anti-death penalty protesters chanted, clapped and sang, Dallas County convicted murderer Kimberly McCarthy Wednesday became the 500th Texas killer to be executed since the state reactivated the death penalty 31 years ago.
On the other edge of the prison grounds, a small group of death penalty supporters silently watched as witnesses crossed the guarded street from the prison administration building to the red brick death house.
Inside the execution chamber, McCarthy, attired in standard prison garb and strapped to the gurney with heavy leather belts, looked toward the witness room occupied by her family and friends and said:
''Thank you everybody. This is not a loss, this is a win. You know where I am going. I am going home to be with Jesus. Keep the faith. I love you all.''
The lethal injection of pentobarbital was administered at 6:17 p.m. McCarthy was declared dead 15 minutes later.
McCarthy was executed for the July 1997 robbery murder of her Lancaster neighbor, Dorothy Booth, 71.
After the execution, Booth’s daughter Donna Aldred told reporters her mother was ''an incredible woman who was taken before her time.''
''After almost 16 years,'' she said, ''the finality of this event has allowed me to say goodbye to my mother. We are grateful to see justice fulfilled.''
Randy Browning, a family friend, told those gathered beneath a blistering afternoon sun that the victim’s family and friends would ''accept closure in whatever form comes our way.''
McCarthy, he said, never expressed remorse over killing Booth or the elderly victims of two other murders prosecutors attributed to her.
As the time for the execution approached, protesters from Houston and Dallas gathered in a parking lot adjacent to the prison.
''It just seems so obviously wrong,'' said Kelly Epstein, an anti-death penalty advocate from Spring. ''And we just keep doing this. It’s part of our violent society - our love of guns, our love of violence. I think each person, even McCarthy, has value and worth.''
Led by Houston activist Gloria Rubac, protesters - the group ultimately grew to about a hundred - joined in a chant.
''Harris County says death row,'' Rubac shouted.
''We say hell no,'' came the response.
''Perry says death row,'' Rubac prompted.
''We say hell no.''
''The death penalty is guilty and should be stopped right now,'' Rubac shouted.
The Rev. Peter Johnson of Dallas told the crowed that ''the death penalty is not only economically stupid. It says something about our moral fiber... The solution to murder cannot be murder.''
Across the prison grounds, death penalty supporter Jordan Rhea of Houston said he favored McCarthy’s execution because ''If you take a life, justice needs to be done. It’s an eye for an eye.''
Another capital punishment supporter, Destiny Thompson, also of Houston, said she felt death was an appropriate punishment because of the brutality of the crime. ''It was violent, premeditated and inhumane.''
McCarthy, who consistently refused to talk with the media while on death row, occasionally joked with prison staff while she whiled away the day in a holding cell just a few feet from the execution chamber. But for the most part, said prison spokesman John Hurt, she was subdued, pensive.
She was served a breakfast of oatmeal, fruit and chicken sandwiches at 1:48 a.m. Later in the day she read, packed her belongings and visited with her spiritual adviser, her ex-husband and a prison chaplain.
There was no question that McCarthy would be put to death after the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals on Tuesday rejected her second appeal in as many days. McCarthy’s lawyer, Maurie Levin of the University of Texas Capital Punishment Clinic, had sought the court to review claims that African-Americans improperly were kept from serving on McCarthy’s jury.
Three blacks were eliminated in the selection process, and only one ultimately served on the jury. McCarthy was African-American.
''The shameful errors that plague Ms. McCarthy’s case - race bias, ineffective counsel, and courts unwilling to exercise meaningful oversight of the system - reflect problems that are central to the administration of the death penalty as a whole,'' Levin said after the court’s decision.
McCarthy had no further recourse to the federal courts, Levin said.
Testimony in the trial indicated McCarthy, addicted to crack cocaine, approached her victim ostensibly to borrow sugar, then repeatedly stabbed her. McCarthy severed the woman’s finger to obtain a ring, which, along with other stolen items, was converted to cash to buy drugs.
During the punishment phase of McCarthy’s trial, prosecutors told jurors that she had murdered two other women, both of them in their 80s.  Both of the victims were related to or were close friends of her family.
In addition, McCarthy had been convicted of forgery, theft of property and prostitution. XXX - End of Story&lt;3D&gt;
