HIGH SCHOOL OFFICIAL HAD SEX WITH FOUR STUDENTS, CITY SAYS
NEW YORK - An administrator at a Manhattan high school admitted to having sex with four female students, according to a report by the New York City Department of Investigation.
The administrator, Malik Taylor, 31, had sexual intercourse with students who ranged in age from 16 to 19, and also sexually harassed four other students while he worked as a community assistant and a dean at the high school, the Business of Sports School in Midtown, according to a report by the special commissioner of investigation for the city’s schools.
In an interview with investigators in June, Taylor admitted that he had had unprotected sex with students in motel rooms, in the back of his car and in classrooms after school. He made lewd comments about the size of students’ buttocks and breasts, and sent inappropriate text messages from a cellphone assigned to his wife, the report stated. He also asked one of the students to buy marijuana for him, it said.
Taylor emailed his resignation to the school’s principal, Joshua Solomon, in May, after one of the students told him that she had reported him. That student told a teacher that she was having a sexual relationship with Taylor, and that she knew of others who were as well. The teacher then told the school’s assistant principal, Rosa Choi, who notified the special commissioner’s office.
The city has referred the report to the district attorneys in Manhattan and Brooklyn for further action.
Attempts on Tuesday evening to reach Taylor, Choi and Solomon by phone and email were unsuccessful.
On Tuesday, the city’s Education Department said that Taylor’s actions were “completely reprehensible” and that he had been barred from teaching in the city.
Taylor worked at the school for about a year, and his salary was $32,000.
One relationship started when a student came to Taylor to discuss personal problems, the report said. It stated that Taylor began talking to her in a sexual way, and then told her he wanted her to have his child.
He and another student exchanged about 6,000 text messages during a three-month period, the investigation showed. That student said Taylor groped her in the school cafeteria and made inappropriate comments to her. She eventually agreed to have sex with him at a motel after he asked her for months to be intimate with him, according to the report.
